- When we start to impact Spring Batch's Architecture
we find two prominent concepts.
Jobs and steps.
A job represents the entire batch process
that we want to execute.
It defines one or more steps
that execute in an order we commonly call a flow.
A step is a phase in a batch job that defines
how the actual processing will occur
for that portion of the job.
The processing logic within a step
may read data from a data source,
process it and then write it to another data source.
A job can contain multiple steps
and the flow from one step to another can be dynamic.
Meaning it can be conditional or occur in parallel.
The entire job is launched using a Job Launcher,
which may pass JobParameters to the job.
As the job runs, metadata regarding the job
is written to the job repository.
When running Spring Batch jobs the concept of a job instance
and a job execution must be understood.
When a job launcher creates a job
it typically will pass the name of the job
and some parameters.
The combination of the Job Name and its parameters
defines a new JobInstance which is created.
When we execute a JobInstance,
we create a new JobExecution.
In some situations, such as failures,
we might execute a job multiple times
with the same parameters.
So it is the same JobInstance because it's the same job
But in this case, a different JobExecution is created
because it is the second execution
of a particular JobInstance.
So when we execute a job with the same parameters
it is the same instance of a job
and for each time that we execute a JobInstance
we get a new JobExecution.
Here we'll see the same job ran with different parameters,
which creates a different JobInstance
and a new execution of that JobInstance.
So here we see in attempt three,
we have the same job name but you'll notice
that the JobParameter being passed is different.
This means that we're going to have a different JobInstance
and when that JobInstance is executed
we're going to get a different JobExecution.
As the steps execute within a job,
there's a very similar concept that is applied.
So each execution of a step
is going to create a new StepExecution.
The StepExecution is associated with a JobExecution
and its possible to have multiple StepExecutions
when a failure occurs in our processing
and we need to restart a job.
As they execute, metadata regarding JobInstance,
JobExecutions and StepExecutions
are all stored in the JobRepository.
Here you see some of the tables the JobRepository uses
to store this information in a relational database.
Of particular interest is the status and exit code columns
found within the execution tables.
These columns hold information regarding the success
or failure of a job.
We'll be talking about these in more detail
later in the course.
The final item I want to discuss is the two types of steps
found within Spring Batch.
The first type of step is known as a tasklet
and we've seen this in our first example.
It contains a single method on its interface named execute,
that runs over and over until it gives signal to stop.
Tasklets are typically used for things like setup logic,
stored procedures or other custom logic
that cannot be achieved without the box components.
The second type of step is known as a chunk-based step.
It is used in scenarios where we need to process data
from a data source.
The chunk-based step leverages the ItemReader interface
to read chunks of data from a data store.
Then writes the chunks in a transaction
using the ItemWriter.
Optionally, we can include an ItemProcessor implementation
to perform transformations on the data.
So those are the high level concepts you will need to know
for working with batch jobs in Spring Batch.
Lets write some code
and check these out with a few examples.